README.md, before:


# Traffic Prediction in SDN Networks

## Overview

This project aims to analyze traffic patterns and predict traffic in Software-Defined Networking (SDN) environments using Mininet and Ryu. The goal is to capture network traffic, train a machine learning model for traffic prediction, and analyze the model's performance.


## Getting Started
Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/MattiaDeMunari/SDN-Traffic-Prediction
```

## Requirements
Mininet and Ryu can be installed following the instructions on this [website](https://www.granelli-lab.org/researches/relevant-projects/comnetsemu-labs). The application require Python 3.

Install Python3 dependencies using pip:
```bash
sudo pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
## Usage
### Topology and traffic generation
This repository contains the following structure: 

SDN-Traffic-Prediction
```
├── utils
├── training_data (_auto-generated_) : saved arima training data
├── plots (_auto-generated_) : saved images prediction plots
├── captures (_auto-generated_) : saved traffic data captures
├── main.py
├── traffic_prediction.py
```

Build and start the topology with Mininet and generate traffic.
```bash
 sudo python3 main.py [--switches SWITCHES] [--hosts HOSTS] [--cross-connection CROSS_CONNECTION] [--time TIME] 
```

The script allows users to define custom network topologies by specifying the number of switches, hosts per switch, and interconnectivity between switches. These parameters can be adjusted according to the desired testing scenario.

Arguments:
- `--switches`: Number of switches in the network. Default is 7.
- `--hosts`: Number of hosts per switch. Default is 2.
- `--cross-connection`: Interconnectivity ratio between switches. Default is 0.30.
- `--time`: Duration of the test in seconds. Default is 30.

Example of command that will run the script with 10 switches, 3 hosts per switch, 50% cross-connection, and a test duration of 60 seconds.
```bash
 sudo python3 main.py --switches 10 --hosts 3 --cross-connection 0.50 --time 60

```
Application flow:
1. Network creation: building of the specified network topology using Mininet.
2. STP configuration: waiting for Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) configuration to avoid network loops.
3. Ping connectivity test: ping connectivity test between all hosts in the network to verify basic network connectivity.
4. Traffic generation: starting servers on some hosts and clients on others. 
5. Traffic capture: capture of network traffic passing through the switches using TCPdump for analysis.

### Traffic prediction
The script created in order to predict network traffic patterns accepts various command-line arguments for flexibility in data input and output customization.

Start traffic prediction process:  
```bash
sudo python3 traffic_prediction.py [--pcap-path PCAP_PATH] [--csv CSV] [--store-csv STORE_CSV] [--store-plot STORE_PLOT] [--training-split TRAINING_SPLIT] [--sample-period SAMPLE_PERIOD]```
```

Arguments:
- `--pcap-path`: Path to the folder containing the .pcap files to be used as input. Default is "captures".
- `--csv`: Path to the folder containing the csv files to be used as input. If provided, this argument will ignore pcap-path and sample-period.
- `--store-csv`: Path to the folder where the training data will be stored in csv files.
- `--store-plot`: Path to the folder where the plots will be stored. Default is "plots".
- `--training-split`: Percentage of data used for training. Default is 80%.
- `--sample-period`: Period over which to combine network data. Default is "0.2S".

To run the script with custom parameters:
```bash
python3 traffic_prediction.py --csv data --store-csv training_data --store-plot my_plots --training-split 0.75 --sample-period "0.1S"
```

Commit message:

separate interfaces in main (might not work) and add folder creation to traffic_prediction

README.md, after:


# Traffic Prediction in SDN Networks

## Overview

This project aims to analyze traffic patterns and predict traffic in Software-Defined Networking (SDN) environments using Mininet and Ryu. The goal is to capture network traffic, train a machine learning model for traffic prediction, and analyze the model's performance.


## Getting Started
Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/MattiaDeMunari/SDN-Traffic-Prediction
```

## Requirements
Mininet and Ryu can be installed following the instructions on this [website](https://www.granelli-lab.org/researches/relevant-projects/comnetsemu-labs). The application require Python 3.

Install Python3 dependencies using pip:
```bash
sudo pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
## Usage
### Topology and traffic generation
This repository contains the following structure: 

SDN-Traffic-Prediction
```
├── utils
├── training_data (_auto-generated_) : saved arima training data
├── plots (_auto-generated_) : saved images prediction plots
├── captures (_auto-generated_) : saved traffic data captures
├── main.py
├── traffic_prediction.py
```

Build and start the topology with Mininet and generate traffic.
```bash
sudo python3 main.py [--switches SWITCHES] [--hosts HOSTS] [--cross-connection CROSS_CONNECTION] [--time TIME] [--combine-interfaces]
```

The script allows users to define custom network topologies by specifying the number of switches, hosts per switch, and interconnectivity between switches. These parameters can be adjusted according to the desired testing scenario.

N.B.: Mininet requires this script to be ran as root, therefore sudo is mandatory

Arguments:
- `--switches`: Number of switches in the network. Default is 7.
- `--hosts`: Number of hosts per switch. Default is 2.
- `--cross-connection`: Interconnectivity ratio between switches. Default is 0.30.
- `--time`: Duration of the test in seconds. Default is 30.
- `--combine-interfaces`: Whether to combine all the ports for one switch into a single .pcap file. Default is False. 

Example of command that will run the script with 10 switches, 3 hosts per switch, 50% cross-connection, and a test duration of 60 seconds.
```bash
sudo python3 main.py --switches 10 --hosts 3 --cross-connection 0.50 --time 60

```
Application flow:
1. Network creation: building of the specified network topology using Mininet.
2. STP configuration: waiting for Spanning Tree Protocol (STP) configuration to avoid network loops.
3. Ping connectivity test: ping connectivity test between all hosts in the network to verify basic network connectivity.
4. Traffic generation: starting servers on some hosts and clients on others. 
5. Traffic capture: capture of network traffic passing through the switches using TCPdump for analysis.

### Traffic prediction
The script created in order to predict network traffic patterns accepts various command-line arguments for flexibility in data input and output customization.

Start traffic prediction process:  
```bash
python3 traffic_prediction.py [--pcap-path PCAP_PATH] [--csv CSV] [--store-csv STORE_CSV] [--store-plot STORE_PLOT] [--training-split TRAINING_SPLIT] [--sample-period SAMPLE_PERIOD]
```

Arguments:
- `--pcap-path`: Path to the folder containing the .pcap files to be used as input. Default is "captures".
- `--csv`: Path to the folder containing the csv files to be used as input. *Note: If provided, the program will ignore any pcap files and the `--sample-period` argument will be ignored, as well as `--store-csv` since the csv files are already read from storage.*
- `--store-csv`: Path to the folder where the training data will be stored in csv files.
- `--store-plot`: Path to the folder where the plots will be stored. Default is "plots".
- `--training-split`: Percentage of data used for training. Default is 80%.
- `--sample-period`: Period over which to combine network data in pandas date-time format. Default is "0.2S"

To run the script with custom parameters:
```bash
python3 traffic_prediction.py --pcap-path data --store-csv training_data --store-plot my_plots --training-split 0.75 --sample-period "0.1S"
```
